"the
TEACHER'S
WORDS"
Extracts from a film
strip, produced by
Unesco's Fundamen-
tal Education Audio-
Visual Project in
China. It is one of
those being used to
warn people against
the dangers of tra-
choma and to show
them how to protect
themselves against
this disease of the
eyes.
I. Carrying a load
of firewood,
Chang Ta is walking
past the village
school, when he trips
over a stone. The
teachers and students
hear his cry of pain
and come outside to
see what has hap-
pened.
2. Chang Ta ex-
plains that he
cannot see very well
because of the illness
that has attacked his
eyes. All he can do
to make a living is
collect and sell fire-
wood.
3. Sending one of
his pupils to help
Chang Ta home, the
teacher calls the rest
into the class room
and explains the
cause of Chang's
illness.
4. Chang Ta, he
says, caught tra-
choma because he
was careless. He
did not treat it
quickly and so will
soon become blind.
5. There are four
precautions, he
explains, that one
should take to avoid
catching the disea-
se.
6. Don't use a towel
after someone
else has used it. He
may have had tra-
choma and you may
catch it from the to-
wel.
7. Do not, for exam-
ple, wipe your
face with a towel
provided in a public
place such as an
eating house.
8. Use only clean
water to wash
your face and never
wash in water that
someone else has
used.
9. Always see the
wash-basin is
clean because"the
trachoma poison so-
metimes sticks on the
sides".
Never rub your
eyes with your
hands. If they are
dirty you may easily
get trachoma.
IN. If you are care-
less and get the
disease you will not
only suffer from the
pain but also finan-
cially in paying for
treatment. And you
may be unable to
work.
The teacher re-
peats the lesson
he has taught his
pupils and adds :"Practice these four
health habits and you
will not catch tra-
choma."
